.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/man1/RCS/tiff2ps.1,v 1.13 93/08/09 18:26:00 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1992 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH TIFF2PS 1 "August 9, 1993"
.SH NAME
tiff2ps \- convert a
.SM TIFF
image to PostScript\(tm
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tiff2ps
[
.B \-2
] [
.B \-a
] [
.B \-d
.I dirnum
] [
.B \-e
] [
.B \-p
] [
.B \-s
] [
.B \-w
.I width
] [
.B \-h
.I height
]
.I file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I tiff2ps
reads a
.SM TIFF
image and writes PostScript or Encapsulated PostScript (EPS)
on the standard output.
By default,
.I tiff2ps
writes Encapsulated PostScript for the first image in the specified
.SM TIFF
image file.
The
.B \-e
and
.B \-p
options can be used to force generation of Encapsulated PostScript
or PostScript, respectively.
The \-a
option causes all pages of a 
.SM TIFF
to be converted to PostScript; while the
.B \-s
option forces only a single page to be converted.
The
.B \-d
option sets the initial
.SM TIFF
directory to
.IR dirnum ;
this is useful for selecting individual pages
in multi-page (e.g. facsimile) files.
The
.B \-2
option causes
.I tiff2ps
to generate PostScript Level II; otherwise PostScript Level I
is generated.
.PP
By default,
.I tiff2ps
will generate PostScript that fills a printed area specified
by the 
.SM TIFF
tags in the input file.
If the file does not contain
.I XResolution
or
.I YResolution
tags, then the printed area is set according to the image dimensions.
The
.B \-w
and
.B \-h
options can be used to set the dimensions of the printed area in inches;
overriding any relevant
.SM TIFF
tags.
.PP
The PostScript generated for
.SM RGB,
palette, and
.SM CMYK
images uses the
.I colorimage
operator.
The PostScript generated for
greyscale and bilevel images
uses the
.I image
operator.
When the
.I colorimage
operator is used, PostScript code to emulate this operator
on older PostScript printers is also generated.
Note that this emulation code can be very slow.
.PP
Color images with associated alpha data are composited over
a white background.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following generates PostScript Level II for all pages of a facsimile:
.RS
.nf
tiff2ps -a2 fax.tif | lpr
.fi
.RE
Note also that if you have version 2.6.1 or newer of Ghostscript then you
can efficiently preview facsimile generated with the above command.
.PP
To generate Encapsulated PostScript for a the image at directory 2
of an image use:
.RS
.nf
tiff2ps -d 1 foo.tif
.fi
.RE
(notice that directories are numbered starting at zero.)
.SH BUGS
Because PostScript does not support the notion of a colormap,
8-bit palette images produce 24-bit PostScript images.
This conversion results in output that is six times
bigger than the original image and which takes a long time
to send to a printer over a serial line.
Matters are even worse for 4-, 2-, and 1-bit palette images.
.SH BUGS
Does not use PostScript Level II support for printing color images
(only bilevel and greyscale images).
Does not handle tiled images.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR pal2rgb (1),
.IR tiffinfo (1),
.IR tiffcp (1),
.IR tiffgt (1),
.IR tiffmedian (1),
.IR tiff2bw (1),
.IR tiffsv (1),
.IR libtiff (3)
