.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/man1/RCS/tiffgt.1,v 1.15 92/02/14 16:43:16 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1992 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH TIFFGT 1 "Feburary 14, 1992"
.SH NAME
tiffgt \- display an image stored in a
.SM TIFF
file (Silicon Graphics version)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tiffgt
[
.B \-c
] [
.B \-d
.I dirnum
] [
.B \-f
] [
.B \-l
] [
.B \-m
] [
.B \-r
] [
.B \-s
] [
.B \-v
]
.I name
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tiffgt
displays an image stored in a file with the
Tag Image File Format, Revision 6.0.
The image is placed in a fixed size window that the
user must position on the display.
If the display has fewer than 24 bitplanes, or if the
image does not warrant full color, then
.SM RGB
color values are mapped to the closest values that exist in
the colormap (this is done using the
.I rgbi
routine found in the graphics utility library
.BR \-lgutil .)
To force an image to be displayed in a full color window, the 
.B \-r
flag may be specified.
The
.B \-c
flag forces a colormap window to be used for display.
.PP
By default,
the first image in the file is displayed.
To display an alternate image, specify the directory
number with the
.B \-d
option.
Directories are numbered starting at zero.
.PP
Normally
.I tiffgt
runs as a background process; the
.B \-f
option forces it to run as a foreground process.
.PP
If the
.B \-v
option is specified,
.I tiffgt
will place information in the title bar describing
what type of window (full color or colormap) is being
used, the name of the input file, and the directory
index of the image (if non-zero).
By default, the window type is not shown in the title bar.
.PP
By default,
.I tiffgt
will ignore errors in the input data.
If the
.B \-s
option is specified,
.I tiffgt
will stop on the first read error it encounters.
.PP
.I Tiffgt
correctly handles files with any of the following characteristics:
.sp .5
.in +0.5i
.ta \w'\fIPhotometricInterpretation\fP  'u
.nf
BitsPerSample	1, 2, 4, 8, 16
SamplesPerPixel	1, 3, 4 (the 4th sample is ignored)
PhotometricInterpretation	0 (min-is-white), 1 (min-is-black), 2 (RGB), 3 (palette), 6 (YCbCr)
PlanarConfiguration	1 (contiguous), 2 (separate)
Orientation	1 (top-left), 4 (bottom-left)
.fi
.in -0.5i
.sp .5
Data may be organized as strips or tiles and may be
compressed with any of the compression algorithms supported
by the 
.IR libtiff (3)
library.
.PP
For palette images (\c
.IR PhotomatricInterpretation =3),
.I tiffgt
inspects the colormap values and assumes either 16-bit
or 8-bit values according to the maximum value.
That is, if no colormap entry greater than 255 is found,
.I tiffgt
assumes the colormap has only 8-bit values; otherwise
it assumes 16-bit values.
This inspection is done to handle old images written by
previous (incorrect) versions of
.IR libtiff .
.PP
By default,
.I tiffgt
interprets the bit ordering of the image data according to
the
.I FillOrder
tag.
Some vendors incorrectly write images without the
.I FillOrder
tag and with bits ordered from Least Significant Bit (\c
.SM LSB\c
) to Most Significant Bit (\c
.SM MSB\c
).
If an image does not have a
.I FillOrder
tag, the
.B \-l
and
.B \-m
options can be used to force the bit ordering to be
.SM LSB
to
.SM MSB
and
.SM MSB
to
.SM LSB\c
, respectively.
.SH BUGS
Images wider and taller than the display are silently truncated to avoid
crashing old versions of the window manager.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR tiffdump (1),
.IR tiffinfo (1),
.IR tiffcp (1),
.IR libtiff (3)
