.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/man1/RCS/tiffcp.1,v 1.17 93/08/09 17:39:22 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1992 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH TIFFCP 1 "August 9, 1993"
.SH NAME
tiffcp \- copy (and possibly convert) a
.SM TIFF
file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tiffcp
[
.B \-strips
] [
.B \-rowsperstrip
.I n
] [
.B \-tiles
] [
.B \-tilewidth
.I n
] [
.B \-tilelength
.I n
] [
.B \-contig
] [
.B \-separate
] [
.B \-lsb2msb
] [
.B \-msb2lsb
] [
.B \-none
] [
.B \-packbits
] [
.B \-lzw
] [
.B \-g3
] [
.B \-g4
] [
.B \-1d
] [
.B \-2d
] [
.B \-fill
] [
.B \-predictor
.I n
]
.I "src1 ... srcN dst"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I tiffcp
combines one or more files created according
to the Tag Image File Format, Revision 6.0
into a single
.SM TIFF
file.
Because the output file may be compressed using a different
algorithm than the input files,
.I tiffcp
is most often used to convert between different compression
schemes.
.PP
By default, 
.I tiffcp
will copy all the understood tags in a
.SM TIFF
directory of an input
file to the associated directory in the output file.
The
.BR \-none ,
.BR \-packbits ,
.BR \-lzw ,
.BR \-g3 ,
and
.BR \-g4 ,
options are used to override the value of the
.I Compression
tag and thereby redefine
the compression scheme to use in creating the output file.
The
.SM CCITT
Group 3 and Group 4 compression algorithms can only
be used with bilevel data.
The
.BR \-1d ,
.BR \-2d ,
and
.B \-fill
options are meaningful only with Group 3 compression:
.B \-1d
requests 1-dimensional encoding,
.B \-2d
requests 2-dimensional encoding, and
.B \-fill
requests that each encoded scanline be
zero-filled to a byte boundary.
The
.B \-predictor
option is only meaninful with 
.SM LZW
compression: a predictor value of 2 causes
each scanline of the output image to undergo horizontal
differencing before it is encoded; a value
of 1 forces each scanline to be encoded without differencing.
.PP
By default,
.I tiffcp
will create a new file with the same data organization as
the original.
The
.B \-strips
and
.B \-tiles
options can be used to force the resultant image to be written
as strips or tiles of data, respectively.
The
.B \-rowsperstrip
option can be used to set the number of rows (scanlines)
in each strip of data, while the
.B \-tilewidth
and
.B \-tilelength
options can be used to specify the dimensions of tiles.
By default, the output file attempts to setup strip and tile
dimensions so that no more than 8 kilobytes of data appear in
a strip or tile.
.PP
The
.B \-contig
and
.B \-separate
options can be used to convert between different planar
configurations if the original files have one 8-bit
sample per pixel.
.PP
By default,
.I tiffcp
will create a new file with the same fill order as the original.
The
.B \-lsb2msb
and
.B \-msb2lsb
options can be used to specify the fill order of data
in the output file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR pal2rgb (1),
.IR tiffinfo (1),
.IR tiffcmp (1),
.IR tiffmedian (1),
.IR tiffsplit (1),
.IR libtiff (3)
